# Background
This section provides context and background information about the tools and technologies used in this tutorial.

## Infrastructure as Code (IaC)
Infrastructure as Code (IaC) is a key DevOps practice that allows you to manage and provision your infrastructure through code instead of manual processes. This approach enables you to automate the deployment and management of your infrastructure, making it more efficient and less error-prone.

### Terraform
Terraform is an open-source infrastructure as code tool that allows you to define and provision your infrastructure using a declarative configuration language. It supports network configuration of containers, making suitable for managing interactions between multiple containers, which is what we will be doing in this tutorial.

## Docker
Docker is a platform that enables developers to automate the deployment of applications inside lightweight, portable containers. Containers package an application and its dependencies together, ensuring that it runs consistently across different environments. If it works on your machine, it will work anywhere (unless the image was built for a different architecture, such as ARM vs x86).

## Snort
Snort is an open-source network intrusion detection and prevention system (IDPS) that can analyze network traffic in real-time. It uses a rule-based language to define the traffic patterns to look for, making it a powerful tool for network security monitoring.

## Splunk
Initially, we were going to use Splunk to aggregate Snort alerts, to simulate a real-world network monitoring setup. However, due to issues with the configuration of Splunk and the requirement for an account, we decided to simplify the tutorial with a basic HTTP server that at least allows you to see the alerts generated by Snort. The purpose of the tutorial is not to run a cybersecurity operations center but to demonstrate how to use Terraform to manage Docker containers.
